---
layout: post
title: "Azureus"
categories: slackware
tags: slackware
---

Azureus is a hassle to install. In order to work it, Java must be installed.

The installation instruction for Java:

  1. At the terminal, type: `su`
  2. Enter the root password.
  3. Change to the directory in which you want to install. Type: `cd <directory path name>`
  4. For example, to install the software in the /usr/java/ directory, type: `cd /usr/java/`
  5. Change the permission of the file you downloaded to be executable. Type: `chmod a+x jre-1_4_2_04-linux-i586.bin`
  6. Verify that you have permission to execute the file. Type: `ls -l`

Note about root access: To install the JRE in a system-wide location such as /usr/local, you must login as the root user to gain the necessary permissions. If you do not have root access, install the JRE in your home directory or a subdirectory for which you have write permissions.

If Java is not in the desired directory (e.g.: /usr/java/), just move the dir to
/usr/java manually.

To test if Java is installed correctly, go [here](http://www.java.com/en/download/help/testvm.jsp).

The installation instruction for Azureus:

  1. Install JRE from [here](http://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp).
  2. Extract latest Linux package (choice of GTK or Motif) from [here](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=84122).
  3. To extract the program files from the package, type: `tar xvjf Azureus_x.x.x.x_linux...tar.bz2` where Azureus_x.x.x.x_linux...tar.bz2 is the name of the downloaded package.
  4. Change to the azureus directory and run `./azureus` to start.
  5. If you get an error message or want to configure the java exec path, just open the azureus script file with your favorite text editor and edit the given configuration options. 
  6. If Azureus does not show up after a minute, you can try starting it manually:
    - GTK: `java -cp swt.jar:swt-pi.jar:Azureus2.jar -Djava.library.path=./ org.gudy.azureus2.ui.swt.Main`

## safepeer plugin

To use safepeer plugin, create a folder named "safepeer" or something similar and place it in ~/azureus/plugins.

Unzip it and start azureus for safepeer to boot.
