---
layout: post
title: "The Web"
categories: web
tags: web web3
---

* TOC
{:toc}

## 

https://chromeisbad.com

Amusing:

- http://motherfuckingwebsite.com/
- http://bettermotherfuckingwebsite.com/
- https://thebestmotherfucking.website

https://how-i-experience-web-today.com

balkanization of internet

["38% of webpages that existed in 2013 are no longer accessible a decade later"](https://www.pewresearch.org/data-labs/2024/05/17/when-online-content-disappears/)

## Web 1.0

think AOL

- static
- not very dynamic or interactive

## Web 2.0

think blogging

- dynamic
- age of social media
- user-generated content

## Web 3.0

think crypto

people think the economy will be programmable, an interesting concept when we start talking about Turing-complete economy



"Tech leaders are delusional if they think Web3 will give power back to the people"
"This so-called decentralization of power out of the hands of a few has, in fact, been a recentralization of power into the hands of even fewer. Take Bitcoin, for example. The top 2% of account addresses own 95% of the more than $800 billion supply of Bitcoin."
"Even worse, these crypto projects are becoming more centralized as the market matures. When Ethereum launched seven years ago, insiders controlled just 15%. But more recently, Web3 projects have launched with insider ownership of 30% to 40%."
"The new guard also looks older and more guardian than the old guard. Specifically, these are dudes from Stanford or Harvard who serve under the delusion they are giving the power back to the people while accidentally making billions. Every member of Forbes' 2021 crypto-billionaires list is a man. A third of them attended Stanford or Harvard. What could go wrong? Out of the 12 men on the list, only one isn't White."
"Preaching liberation while sequestering into gated communities is endemic to tech and venture capitalists. The personal computer was going to free us from the grips of IBM's dominance and mainframes, but it fell under even greater control of Microsoft. Apple claimed to be a revolutionary fighting Big Brother, but it erected the greatest tollbooth for creativity in history: the App Store."
https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/29/perspectives/scott-galloway-web3/index.html



### Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs)

"• Decentralized—rules can’t be changed by a single individual or centralized party.
• Autonomous—votes are tallied and decisions implemented based on logic written into a smart contract, without human intervention.
• Organizations—entities that coordinate activity among a distributed community of stakeholders."

"A smart contract is a persistent computer program that runs on a blockchain network. Like legal contracts, smart contracts are commitments, except they’re written into computer code that executes automatically and autonomously."



### Decentralized Finance (DeFi)

"Cryptocurrencies are like money—they can be considered as a unit of account, store of value, and medium of exchange within the system—and can transfer actual value digitally without a centralized third party."



Kyber



### Stablecoins & Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDCs)



### Privacy & Digital Infrastructure

"What is it?
One of the limitations of many existing blockchain networks is that they are fully transparent by design. But cutting-edge research in new areas of cryptography make it possible to mathematically prove the validity of certain information, without providing the information itself. For example, a user could prove to a website that they know their password, without the website having to store the user’s password in a database vulnerable to attack. This set of solutions can therefore address both privacy and scalability problems.
Why it matters
Privacy is important as a feature, not just because it protects users’ personal data, but also because it fundamentally extends the design space for applications. Particularly given the backdrop of massive data breaches that have proliferated during the Web 2.0 era, data protection must be central to the next wave of tech innovations. Privacy infrastructure will enable a more protective suite of applications.
Privacy also has the potential to allow greater regulatory compliance. With existing systems, a user may be reluctant to give their personal information to a service provider or application on the blockchain, because that information could be used to see every single transaction the user had ever completed. Privacy layers help allay these concerns. They enable users to disclose certain information to specific parties, such as regulators, while preventing that information from becoming fully public. This means that regulatory compliance would be easier to achieve without corresponding privacy risks."



### The Creator Economy



### Blockchain-based Games



## Web 4.0


